Stable outlook for Malaysian banking system, says Moody’s

Moody’s Investors Service said Malaysia’s banking system outlook remained stable underpinned by strong economic growth and robust credit metrics across the system.
“While weakening exports will weigh on Malaysia’s economic growth, strong domestic demand will support it as the country’s labour conditions improve and inflation will remain lower than regional peers.
“Banks’ ample loan-loss buffers and the ongoing forbearance measures will mitigate asset risks from weak borrowers,” it said.
The international credit rating agency said stable net interest margins (NIMs) and loan-loss provisions will help keep banks’ pretax profitability broadly steady, while the absence of a one-off prosperity tax will give a boost to their bottom-line profitability in 2023.
It said banks’ capitalisation and liquidity would remain strong as credit growth slowed moderately given the expectation of further policy rate hikes this year.
“We expect Malaysia’s real gross domestic product growth to moderate to 4.5% in 2023 from 8.7% in 2022 due to the weakening of export demand, partly mitigated by strong domestic demand amid improving labour conditions.
ADVERTISING
“We expect system-wide credit growth to decline modestly to about 5% in 2023 from 5.5%  in 2022 as high-interest rates will dampen credit demand. In addition, we expect further policy rate hikes in 2023 as inflation remains elevated compared to pre-pandemic levels,” it said.
It said the bank’s asset quality would be stable as rate hikes last year have increased the debt burdens of borrowers with low-income individuals being particularly vulnerable.
Additionally, it said a supply glut in the property market would continue to weigh on the repayment capacity of developers and construction companies.
“The asset quality of loans to the real estate and construction sectors has deteriorated over the past two years (but) banks’ repayment assistance programmes will help limit asset risks and strong loan-loss reserves will provide buffers against future loan losses.
“The asset-weighted average loan-loss reserves as a percentage of gross impaired loans for Moody’s rated banks decreased to 156% at the end of September 2022 from 163 % at the end of 2021 but they still are above pre-pandemic levels,” it said.
ADVERTISING
Moody’s also expects capital ratios of local banks to remain stable in 2023 as internal capital generation will offset declines in the fair values of securities caused by policy rate hikes.
In addition, it said, banks’ dividend reinvestment plans and slow risk weighted assets (RWA) growth will also support their capital ratios.
At the end of September 2022, the asset-weighted average ratio of tangible common equity to RWAs for rated banks was 16.6%, a high level, it noted.
On another point, Moody said that increases in funding costs amid competition for deposits will erode most of the benefits of higher loan yields driven by policy rate hikes.
“Loan-loss provisioning expenses will remain stable because banks have set aside sufficient loan loss buffers against future loan losses. As such, banks’ pretax profitability will broadly stay at 2022 levels, while their bottom-line profitability will improve in 2023, aided by the absence of a one-off prosperity tax,” it said.
Moody’s said it also foresaw that Malaysian banks would maintain strong funding and liquidity facilitated by moderate loan growth, allowing banks to reduce their use of market funds.
“Although current account and savings account (CASA) deposits will decrease as depositors shift to higher-yielding term deposits, we expect CASA deposits to remain above pre-pandemic levels.
“The system wide liquidity coverage ratio remained strong at 147% at the end of November 2022, although it declined from 153% at the end of 2021,” it concluded. – TMR