Singapore’s Creative, Media and Marketing Industries: What’s the Job Outlook Like?

We get it – it’s tough times for those in the marketing and content creation sectors. Budgets in this field have been progressively shrinking, with a wave of companies deciding to go directly to their target audiences via social media platforms and search, thanks to the digitalisation of the media and entertainment industries.
It’s not all bad news, with unemployment rates progressively dipping. But penny-pinching means businesses and employers hiring in your sector and field will be looking for more value from their hires, especially with both small and large businesses fearing possible recessions on the horizon, according to market research by Hootsuite recently.
If you’re looking for more market insights, British recruitment agency Robert Walters Group’s Salary Guide for 2023 believes the following:
There will be a bigger focus on diversity and inclusion in hiring for this sector, with employers aiming to hire local Singaporeans for most jobs.
The health and wellness industries will be hiring for skillsets in this field, particularly in the online space or customer engagement. If you’ve got a background in analytics, e-commerce, performance marketing and omnichannel marketing, you’ll be fine.
Permanent roles can be found in FMCG, retail, luxury and consumer technology, healthcare, professional services, industrial (business development, sales management, and account management.
Contract roles will be available in social media marketing, digital marketing, e-commerce, public relations and communications, and campaign analytics.
Looking at the big picture, Singapore’s media sector, comprising 2,200 establishments, contributes a S$2.4 billion value added to Singapore’s economy, according to the Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA).
Technological advancements are transforming every aspect of the industry, from artist and concept development to how audiences consume content, media and marketing initiatives.
While professionals with creative skills remain in demand, those with digital skills will also be sought after to harness data and technology in creating and delivering stories in an increasingly digital environment.
If you’re keen on the industry, here are some sub-industries that have also come to the fore in recent years:
Game Design
Technical Design
Content Production Management
Media Business Management
Production Technical Services
Content Post-production
Media Technology and Operation
Visual Graphics
Game Production
Quality Assurances
And here are some of the jobs in those fields you can consider:
Game Designer
Game Technical Development/Programmer
News Production/Reporting
Scriptwriter
Content Acquisition/Commissioning/Localisation
Data Analyst
Media and Marketing
Media Product Management/Scheduler
Media Sales and Distribution
Media Standards and Practices
Lighting Designer/Director
Production Design
Sound Designer/Editing
Video Editing
Studio Management
On-Demand Media Technology and Operations
Linear Media Infrastructure/Operations
Visual Graphics 2D/3D Art, Animation
Interested in stepping into this field? Read more about it below!
