Singapore’s logistics industry is changing to build long-term resilience

Singapore’s logistics industry is facing significant change led by heterogeneous forces due to the interconnectedness of global supply chains and vast number of players. Focusing on strategies that benefit the long-term such as digitalisation and workplace transformation will propel the logistics industry into future growth and secure Singapore’s competitive advantage as world-class logistics hub for years to come.   As a high frequency supply chain node linked to more than 600 ports worldwide, Singapore’s logistics industry has been significantly tested during the past two pandemic years (years 2020 and 2021). Border closures and strict regulations that varied in time and severity across countries caused significant disruptions in trade flows. In addition, ongoing geopolitical tensions and rising fuel costs created more stressors on the supply chain process. On the home front, safe management protocols in Singapore led to a surge in supply chain demands which logistics operators struggled to fulfil due to manpower shortage – an issue that was already present pre-pandemic but now exacerbated by cross-border regulations. Findings from IndSights Research’s quarterly Business Sentiment Survey (BSS) showed that Singapore logistics companies’ sentiments on their business situation over the last two years have fluctuated in tandem with changes in pandemic and macroeconomic conditions. Still, overall, the logistics industry’s perception has been less negative compared to most other sectors.  The logistics industry also grapples with enduring business pressures to increase efficiencies in order to meet tight source-to-deliver cycles and maintain dock-to-stock process accuracies, all while managing operational resources. Still, local logistics companies appear to have fared better than most. Our BSS data shows that the logistics industry experienced more positive changes in revenues overall compared to their industry peers throughout the pandemic years. Revenue dips (possibly in reaction to sudden COVID-19 restrictions) rebounded in the subsequent quarters as logistics operators likely managed to adapt to the unabating demands for supply chain services.   The pandemic has accelerated the need for digitalisation across the business landscape. As the logistics industry provides key support to a wide range of sectors from infrastructure and construction, healthcare and pharmaceutical, to retail and food services, the rate of digital disruption to traditional supply chain processes will intensify alongside other sectors’ progress.  Further, digitalisation has also facilitated new entrants into the sectors, hence creating increased competition. For example, digital adoption in the retail and food sector spurred the rise of e-commerce and in turn, created a needs-gap in the last-mile delivery market. An example of new entrants to the last-mile delivery market, is Grab, which saw the opportunity to launch GrabExpress, offering agile pricing for on-demand, same-day parcel and courier delivery services for home-based businesses and online retailers. Industry experts have long recommended that logistics companies adopt technological solutions to strip out inefficiencies throughout the supply chain functions to lift productivity. Findings from the BSS indicated that Singapore logistics players recognised the benefits of embracing new technologies as more are looking to invest in digitalisation in 2022 compared to 2021, and more so than other sectors.  