B&H Worldwide delivers first engine shipment for Singapore Airlines

Aerospace logistics company B&H Worldwide has completed its first engine transportation as well as storage on behalf of Singapore Airlines. Aerospace logistics company B&H Worldwide has completed its first engine transportation as well as storage on behalf of Singapore Airlines. B&H was recently commissioned by Singapore Airlines, to transport a GE90 engine from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport to Singapore. The company spent three days to complete the 10,700 kg engine delivery, and it is now stored within a climate-controlled environment of the B&H warehouse facility at Singapore Changi Airport. Mounted on a specialist engine stand, the engine will be stored until it is used, at a constant temperature of 23-24°C and at a humidity level of 64-65%. David Wong, Station Manager of B&H Worldwide Singapore said: “B&H Worldwide has a strong track record in aircraft engine transport and storage for many airlines around the world. Combined with our company’s warehousing and FSL facilities located in strategic aviation hubs we offer a strong value proposition.” Aerospace logistics company B&H Worldwide has completed its first engine transportation as well as storage on behalf of Singapore Airlines. B&H was recently commissioned by Singapore Airlines, to transport a GE90 engine from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport to Singapore. The company spent three days to complete the 10,700 kg engine delivery, and it is now stored within a climate-controlled environment of the B&H warehouse facility at Singapore Changi Airport. Mounted on a specialist engine stand, the engine will be stored until it is used, at a constant temperature of 23-24°C and at a humidity level of 64-65%. David Wong, Station Manager of B&H Worldwide Singapore said: “B&H Worldwide has a strong track record in aircraft engine transport and storage for many airlines around the world. Combined with our company’s warehousing and FSL facilities located in strategic aviation hubs we offer a strong value proposition.”